because my video with seven stoic
exercises for inner peace was so
successful I decided to go a bit deeper
into each exercise giving you a little
bit more intellectual baggage to ponder
over I'll start with explaining the
payme radhaji Omalu by marcus aurelius
that harvests its strength from
pessimism
[Music]
first of all thank you jean-claude for
your support on patreon very much
appreciate it and it will help me to
continue creating these videos now let's
dive in the pay minute SEO mallow whom
can be translated as a negative official
ization an example is derived from
marcus aurelius work meditations in
which he proposes a maxim that can be
used to prepare for the day ahead
because there are different translations
there are different versions of this
Maxim that you can find in the opening
verse of the second book it goes like
this when you wake up in the morning
tell yourself the people I deal with
today will be meddling and grateful
arrogant dishonest jealous and surely
they are like this because they can't
tell good from evil and quote now the
first part of this quote is quite
pessimistic this isn't necessarily a bad
thing as long as there's truth in it
Marcus Aurelius points out that in our
daily lives we indeed encounter people
like that and that it would be a good
idea to prepare for them people that are
too optimistic often tend to deny the
harsh realities of life but by denying
them these realities won't magically
disappear and when they face them
nonetheless
they are disappointed that reality isn't
as beautiful as they imagined stoic
philosopher Epictetus proposed a similar
thought exercise that is presented less
often as a model for the negative
visualization which goes like this when
you are going about any action remind
yourself what nature the action is if
you're going to bathe picture to
yourself the things which usually happen
in the bath some people splash the water
some push some use abusive language and
others steal thus you will more safely
go about this action if you say to
yourself I will now go bathe and keep my
mind in a state conformable to nature
and in the same manner with regard to
every other action and quote an
essential part of the play minute SEO
malorum is reminding ourselves of the
nature of things what's the nature of
the action
about to take what's the nature of the
objects or people we will encounter
Marcus Aurelius reflects on this a bit
further in the same passage but I have
seen the beauty of good and the ugliness
of evil and have recognized that the
wrongdoer has a nature related to my own
not of the same blood or birth but the
same mind and possessing share of the
divine and so none of them can hurt me
no one can implicate me in ugliness nor
can I feel angry at my relative or hate
him and quote in his meditations Marcus
Aurelius keeps telling himself that we
as human beings are here on earth to
work together we are part of a whole
everything is inter woven all parts are
connected and our role is to live
alongside each other in harmony from
this belief he concludes that people
that are acting against this premise
thus those who aren't virtuous and are
obstructing their fellow human beings
instead of cooperating are acting
unnatural thus he argues that this
behavior stems from ignorance of what is
good and evil what other people think
and do is not up to us although with a
little bit of compassion we can see
where their actions are coming from so
what is up to us in a situation in which
we meet with meddling and grateful
arrogant dishonest jealous and surly
people our own faculty there's no point
in being angry at people that don't know
any better
in this case anger is just another
obstruction that works rather divisive
than inclusive there's no point in being
angry at nature it is what it is and
being resentful about things that are
beyond our control is pointless instead
what we can do is accepting the things
we cannot change and keep our own
faculties in a state of tranquillity for
thus if any hindrance arises in bathing
you'll have it ready to say it was not
only to bathe that I desired but to keep
my mind in a state conformable to nature
and I will not keep it if I'm bothered
at things that happen and quote the
negative visualization has
several positive effects on the mind
which are one coping preparing a
situation in our minds gives us the
opportunity to find solutions beforehand
and visualize how we could handle
difficulties that may arise this
increases our ability to cope when the
difficulties are at hand no matter if we
face a catastrophe like losing all our
possessions or loved ones or minor
hardships like being stuck in traffic -
creating perspective because we have
played a certain scenario in our minds
several times in a very conscious manner
and also rationalize it we put things in
perspective by changing our thoughts
about events we will change the way they
influence our mood so instead of seeing
things as undesirable and creating a
version towards them we simply see them
as part of nature three healthy
detachment by contemplating on the
impermanence of the things we love that
we can lose our spouse today that all
our possessions can be taken away from
us will remain realistic about our
relationships towards them as everyone
the people and objects we love are also
part of the ever-changing whole and as
everything they will also cease to exist
someday as Epictetus would argue never
say of anything I have lost it but I
have returned it for less shock the
negative visualization is an anxiety
reducer preparation means that we create
order beforehand so we become more
resilient to chaos when we know that a
certain place is full of jerks for
example will be less shocked if we
encounter them whether or not something
bad will happen is always uncertain but
if it does happen at least we are
prepared we can overdo this of course
and become obsessed by certain scenarios
that might happen which will only lead
to fear and anxiety so the key is
moderation by doing a short reminder
occasionally without transforming these
reminders in to worry the payment that's
your Milou is not about harboring fear
it's about dissolving fear in at
by rational thinking so by addressing
possible future scenarios in a
pessimistic way we not only set
ourselves up for functioning well in
miserable circumstances we also
eradicate the possibility of
disappointment and see that everything
in this universe comes and goes thank
you for watching
[Music]
you